A database is an organized collection of data, generally stored and accessed electronically from a computer system. Where databases are more complex they are often developed using formal design and modeling techniques.

The database management system (DBMS) is the software that interacts with end users, applications, the database itself to capture and analyze the data and provides facilities to administer the database. The sum total of the database, the DBMS and the associated applications can be referred to as a "database system". Often the term "database" is also used to loosely refer to any of the DBMS, the database or an application associated with the database.

Databases are used to support internal operations of organizations and to underpin online interactions with customers and suppliers (see Enterprise software). Databases are used to hold administrative information and more specialized data, such as engineering data or economic models. Examples include computerized library , flight reservation , computerized parts inventory, and many content management systems that store websites as collections of webpages in a database.

Machine learning (ML) is the study of algorithms and mathematical models that computer systems use to progressively improve their performance on a specific task. Machine learning algorithms build a mathematical model of sample data, known as "training data", in order to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to perform the task.

Supervised learning algorithms build a mathematical model of a set of data that contains both the inputs and the desired outputs. The data is known as training data, and consists of a set of training examples. Each training example has one or more inputs and a desired output, also known as a supervisory signal. In the case of semi-supervised learning algorithms, some of the training examples are missing the desired output. In the mathematical model, each training example is represented by an array or vector, and the training data by a matrix. Through the process of iteration, supervised learning algorithms develop and optimize a function that can be used to predict the output associated with new inputs.
